Steps to Download and Install Visual Studio Code on Windows 11:
1.	Visit the VS Code Website:
o	Open your web browser and navigate to the Visual Studio Code website.
2.	Download the Installer:
o	Click the "Download for Windows" button. This will download the VS Code installer for Windows.
3.	Run the Installer:
o	Once the download is complete, open the downloaded file to run the installer.
4.	Accept License Agreement:
o	Read and accept the license agreement, then click "Next".
5.	Choose Installation Location:
o	Select the destination folder for the installation. The default location is usually acceptable. Click "Next".
6.	Select Additional Tasks:
o	Check the options for creating a desktop icon, adding to the PATH (recommended), and other tasks. Click "Next".
7.	Install:
o	Click "Install" to begin the installation. Wait for the installation to complete.
8.	Launch VS Code:
o	Once the installation is complete, you can choose to launch VS Code immediately by checking the box and clicking "Finish".
Prerequisites:
•	Windows 11 Operating System.
•	Administrator privileges for installation.
First-time Setup:
Initial Configurations and Settings for an Optimal Coding Environment:
1.	Update VS Code:
o	Ensure that VS Code is up-to-date by checking for updates in the Help menu.
2.	Install Essential Extensions:
o	Python: For Python development.
o	Prettier: For code formatting.
o	ESLint: For JavaScript linting.
o	Live Server: For a live reload feature for web development.
3.	Set Default Language and Formatter:
o	Go to File > Preferences > Settings, and search for default formatter. Set it to Prettier or your preferred formatter.
o	Set up the preferred language mode for new files.
4.	Configure Editor Settings:
o	Set font size, line height, and other editor preferences in File > Preferences > Settings.
o	Example: "editor.fontSize": 14, "editor.tabSize": 2.
5.	Setup Source Control:
o	Configure Git by setting your username and email in the terminal:
bash
Copy code
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
User Interface Overview:
Main Components of the VS Code User Interface:
1.	Activity Bar:
o	Located on the far left. It provides access to views and commands in VS Code, such as Explorer, Search, Source Control, Run and Debug, and Extensions.
2.	Side Bar:
o	Displays different views like the Explorer, which shows your project files and folders. This bar can change based on the selected activity.
3.	Editor Group:
o	The central part of the interface where you edit your code. You can have multiple editor groups for side-by-side file editing.
4.	Status Bar:
o	Located at the bottom. It shows information about the current file, such as line and column numbers, file type, and branch information if using Git.
Command Palette:
What is the Command Palette?
•	Command Palette: A powerful tool in VS Code that allows you to access various commands and settings. It can be accessed by pressing Ctrl+Shift+P (or Cmd+Shift+P on macOS).
Examples of Common Tasks:
•	Open Settings: Type Preferences: Open Settings.
•	Install Extensions: Type Extensions: Install Extensions.
•	Change Color Theme: Type Preferences: Color Theme.
Extensions in VS Code:
Role of Extensions:
•	Enhance Functionality: Extensions add new features and capabilities to VS Code, tailored to specific programming languages, frameworks, and tools.
Finding, Installing, and Managing Extensions:
1.	Find Extensions:
o	Go to the Extensions view by clicking the Extensions icon in the Activity Bar or pressing Ctrl+Shift+X.
2.	Install Extensions:
o	Search for the desired extension in the Extensions view and click Install.
3.	Manage Extensions:
o	Manage installed extensions by viewing them in the Extensions view, where you can disable, enable, or uninstall them.
Essential Extensions for Web Development:
•	HTML, CSS, and JavaScript: Basic web development extensions.
•	Live Server: For a real-time reload server.
•	ESLint: For identifying and fixing problems in JavaScript code.
•	Prettier: For code formatting.
Integrated Terminal:
Opening and Using the Integrated Terminal:
1.	Open Terminal:
o	Open the terminal by pressing Ctrl+ (backtick) or selecting Terminal > New Terminal from the menu.
2.	Advantages:
o	Convenience: No need to switch between VS Code and an external terminal.
o	Integration: Seamlessly run scripts and commands within the same interface, with direct access to project files.
File and Folder Management:
Creating, Opening, and Managing Files and Folders:
1.	Create Files and Folders:
o	Right-click in the Explorer view and select New File or New Folder.
2.	Open Files and Folders:
o	Use File > Open File or File > Open Folder to open specific files or entire directories.
3.	Navigate Between Files:
o	Use the Explorer view, Ctrl+P to quickly open files by name, and Ctrl+Tab to switch between open files.
Settings and Preferences:
Customizing Settings:
1.	Access Settings:
o	Go to File > Preferences > Settings or press Ctrl+,.
2.	Change Theme:
o	Search for color theme in the settings and choose a new theme.
3.	Change Font Size:
o	Search for font size and adjust the editor font size.
4.	Modify Keybindings:
o	Go to File > Preferences > Keyboard Shortcuts to customize keybindings.
Debugging in VS Code:
Setting Up and Starting Debugging:
1.	Open Debug View:
o	Click on the Run and Debug icon in the Activity Bar.
2.	Configure Launch.json:
o	If needed, set up a launch. Json file by clicking the gear icon and selecting the appropriate environment.
3.	Set Breakpoints:
o	Click in the margin next to the line numbers to set breakpoints.
4.	Start Debugging:
o	Click the green play button or press F5.
Key Debugging Features:
•	Breakpoints: Pause code execution at specific lines.
•	Watch Expressions: Monitor variable values.
•	Call Stack: View the call stack to trace execution flow.
•	Variable Inspection: Inspect variables and their values during execution.
Using Source Control:
Integrating Git with VS Code:
1.	Initialize Repository:
o	Open the Source Control view and click Initialize Repository.
2.	Making Commits:
o	Stage changes, enter a commit message, and click the checkmark to commit.
3.	Pushing Changes to GitHub:
o	Ensure your repository is connected to GitHub, then use the Push command in the Source Control view.

